INTRODUCTION. xxxvii

⁸² But the chief cause that impeded my progress this year,
in framing the Rudolphine Tables2 was an entirely new, but
happy calamity, whieh has befallen a, part of the Tables I had
long ago eompleted. I mean„ most illustrious Baron, that
book of thine, which, published at Edinburgh in Seotland five
years ago, I first saw at Prague the year before last. At that
time I had not leisure to studv it 3 but last year„ having met
with a little book by Benjamin Ursin (long my familiar, and
now astronomer to the ll'Iarg-rave)³ wherein he briefly gives the
marrow of the matter„ extraeted from your own work, Ι was
awakened to its merits. Seareely, indeed3 had Ι made trial of
it, in a single example, when I became aware, to my great
delight, that you had generalized a certain play of Numbers,
which Ι myself, in a, very minute degree, had praetieally
adopted for many years, and had proposed to incorporate with
my Tables; especially in the matter of parallaxes, and in the
minutes of duration and delay in eclipses3 of which method
this very Ephemeris exhibits an example. Ι knew3 indeed, that
this method of mine was only applicable in the single ease of
an are differing in no sensible degree from a, straight line.
But of this Ι was ignorant, that„ from the exeesses of the
seeants„ LOGARITHMS eould be generated¹7 thus rendering the
method universal throughout any extent of are. Then indeed

my mind, above all things. was eager to ascertain„ whether,

