xl INTRODUCTION.

we compare it with what has been previously stated. The Doctor
Craig therein mentioned is undoubtedly Napier’s friend, the
physician of King J ames 3 and the ‘⁶ coming out of Denmark
into his own country,⁷' refers to his return with his Majesty
in 1590. Moreover, that Craig had some conversation with
his friend the Baron of Merchiston on the subject of astrono-
mical calculations, and that the result was some connnunication
on the subject of the Logaritlnns„ seems to be verified by the
independent evidence afforded by Kepler’s other letter, where
he says that a certain Scotchman, in a letter to Tycho written
in the year 1594, already held out some hopes of that won-
derful Canon3 a fact which Kepler had subsequently become
aware of3 probably from his inspection of Tycho's scientific
papers and correspondence. Thus, by a very curious chain
of evidence, it seems proved, that Napier had made some
advance in his construction of the Logaritlnns so early as
1594‚ and that he had set himself deliberately to the task.
after the difficulties which harassed the throne of Astronomy
at Uraniburg (in consequence of the crudeness of numerical
science) had been reported to him in 1590. But, as Kepler
himself observes⁷ the Inventor of Logarithms must have
previously commanded many and most ingenious numerical
resources. He must have been far in advance of his age in a

profound knowledge of the mysterious pla-y of Numbers. His

